README.md, before:

# Money Manager by Leonardo Pinna

Let's try and create a complete money manager website from scratch, in which you can review your financial status and select your favourite investment type, choose your input and obtain a complete report (hope so) to review your investment.

You can follow the live building of the project here: https://twitch.com/leopinna_/

## Overview

### Project Goals

Here is a list of our goals :)

**(0)** First and foremost, we are not experts, we are starting a journey! If you are a beginner programmer or investor, feel free to join! if you are a seasoned programmer or investor, your skills could really help us, but know that we are not going to rely on complex schemes or resources. We will take our time to build things.

**(1)** The main goal of the project is for me and the supporting community to **gain knoledge about programming, financial investments and app/software development** from scratch. Thus, do not expect us to have all the answers to all problems anytime; you should rather expect slow grind through the learning curve of programming, financial models and development, while working hard, and having fun!

**(2)** With the project development, we aim to create a website or app to **manage every aspect of your financials with movements, balance sheets, projections and portfolio diversification reports**. One of the main challenges will be creating the log in, session control logic and database management; this goal will require time.

**(3)** We aim to create **investment analysis and report tools about any kind of investment**, starting from a theoretical financial models and other sources. We would like to build, among other tools, a real estate investment analysis calculator, a stock intrinsic value calculator, and a backtest portfolio calculator.

**(4)** We aim to create a **complete website** that could be useful to everyone in need of better managing finances.

### Rules

Basic simple rules to follow and guidelines:

- The project will be developed mainly on our Twitch channel (https://twitch.com/leopinna_); time and date are subject to changes, refer to the schedule tab of our Twitch channel.
- The main language in live streaming wil be Italian. If the project will expand a lot, we could change it to English to reach broader audience.
- We will try and keep most (if not all) of the code in English.
- Treat everyone with respect and have fun learning and developing the project!
- We are not experts: we could make stupid errors, we could take a long time to solve a basic problem. If you would like to help with the project, you are welcome as long as you respect others and this project's rules. :)

### Contributions

You can contribute to the project by creating a stand-alone model, by developing an useful feature or integration to an existing calculator, by pointing out a bug, or even by suggesting a change in workflow or methods; we could use your ideas and aknowledge your help!!

If you would like to contribute to the project, feel free to contact us and share your feedbacks and ideas. You can contacs us by writing to info@leonardopinna.com.

If you are skilled in programming and interested in contributing to the project, propose your ideas: we could even arrange a direct participation in our live streaming! :D

### Workflow

We will follow a not so rigid workflow, following 5 steps:

1. _Financial Modeling_: selecting or developing one or more financial model to build. This phase is going to be theoretical and we are going to use https:/draw.io and Microsoft Word or Excel to visualize formulas and/or calculations flow. This phase will be useful to highlight potential problems and drawbacks of the model used.
2. _Basic Frontend Coding_: development of the browser interface to visualize input and output of the model.
3. _Logic Coding_: development of the model logic (data acquisition, data management, output creation).
4. _Review and testing_: code testing to address potential problems in the model.
5. _Frontend development_: improvement of the HTML code, by adding CSS and frontend Javascript.
6. _Changes and Updates_: over time, the project could be reviewed, modified or even expanded!
7. _Reference guide_ (not guaranteed): creation of a reference guide in .pdf format, which will include the used model, inputs and outputs of the model, the pros, cons and flaws explanation and a bacis guide on how to use the online calculator.

## Log of content (IT)

### 07/03/2023 - To Do List

1. Create the frontend with React
2. Initialize backend app
3. Start development of 50/30/20 calculator

## Work

### Completed

### In progress

### Planned

#### Basic calculator: budgeting (50/30/20)

#### Basic calculator: income and expenses

#### Basic calculator: saving rate to goal

#### Basic calculator: 4% rule

#### Basic calculator: internal rate of return

#### Basic calculator: compound interest

#### Debt repayment

#### Stock investing: accumulation plan

#### Inflation rate calculator

#### Stock valuation: discounted cashflow

#### Stock valuation: dividend discount model

#### Stock valuation: ratio analysis

#### Stock valuation: historical data

#### Portfolio manager: results and projections

#### Real estate: rental property

#### Real estate: house flipping

#### Real estate: refinancing

#### Real estate: mortgage payment

#### Retirement calculator

#### Salary calculator: income, taxes and expenses

Commit message:

Added Header, Footer, Home page, backend, frontend and created Budget503020 calculator

README.md, after:

# Money Manager by Leonardo Pinna

Let's try and create a complete money manager website from scratch, in which you can review your financial status and select your favourite investment type, choose your input and obtain a complete report (hope so) to review your investment.

You can follow the live building of the project here: https://twitch.com/leopinna_/

## Overview

### Project Goals

Here is a list of our goals :)

**(0)** First and foremost, we are not experts, we are starting a journey! If you are a beginner programmer or investor, feel free to join! if you are a seasoned programmer or investor, your skills could really help us, but know that we are not going to rely on complex schemes or resources. We will take our time to build things.

**(1)** The main goal of the project is for me and the supporting community to **gain knoledge about programming, financial investments and app/software development** from scratch. Thus, do not expect us to have all the answers to all problems anytime; you should rather expect slow grind through the learning curve of programming, financial models and development, while working hard, and having fun!

**(2)** With the project development, we aim to create a website or app to **manage every aspect of your financials with movements, balance sheets, projections and portfolio diversification reports**. One of the main challenges will be creating the log in, session control logic and database management; this goal will require time.

**(3)** We aim to create **investment analysis and report tools about any kind of investment**, starting from a theoretical financial models and other sources. We would like to build, among other tools, a real estate investment analysis calculator, a stock intrinsic value calculator, and a backtest portfolio calculator.

**(4)** We aim to create a **complete website** that could be useful to everyone in need of better managing finances.

### Rules

Basic simple rules to follow and guidelines:

- The project will be developed mainly on our Twitch channel (https://twitch.com/leopinna_); time and date are subject to changes, refer to the schedule tab of our Twitch channel.
- The main language in live streaming wil be Italian. If the project will expand a lot, we could change it to English to reach broader audience.
- We will try and keep most (if not all) of the code in English.
- Treat everyone with respect and have fun learning and developing the project!
- We are not experts: we could make stupid errors, we could take a long time to solve a basic problem. If you would like to help with the project, you are welcome as long as you respect others and this project's rules. :)

### Contributions

You can contribute to the project by creating a stand-alone model, by developing an useful feature or integration to an existing calculator, by pointing out a bug, or even by suggesting a change in workflow or methods; we could use your ideas and aknowledge your help!!

If you would like to contribute to the project, feel free to contact us and share your feedbacks and ideas. You can contacs us by writing to info@leonardopinna.com.

If you are skilled in programming and interested in contributing to the project, propose your ideas: we could even arrange a direct participation in our live streaming! :D

### Workflow

We will follow a not so rigid workflow, following 5 steps:

1. _Financial Modeling_: selecting or developing one or more financial model to build. This phase is going to be theoretical and we are going to use https:/draw.io and Microsoft Word or Excel to visualize formulas and/or calculations flow. This phase will be useful to highlight potential problems and drawbacks of the model used.
2. _Basic Frontend Coding_: development of the browser interface to visualize input and output of the model.
3. _Logic Coding_: development of the model logic (data acquisition, data management, output creation).
4. _Review and testing_: code testing to address potential problems in the model.
5. _Frontend development_: improvement of the HTML code, by adding CSS and frontend Javascript.
6. _Changes and Updates_: over time, the project could be reviewed, modified or even expanded!
7. _Reference guide_ (not guaranteed): creation of a reference guide in .pdf format, which will include the used model, inputs and outputs of the model, the pros, cons and flaws explanation and a bacis guide on how to use the online calculator.

## Log of content (IT)

### 07/03/2023 - To Do List

1. Create the frontend with React (done)
2. Initialize backend app (done)
3. Connect backend to frontend with concurrently (done)
4. Development of basic header, body and footer (done)
5. Start development of 50/30/20 calculator

## Work

### Completed

### In progress

#### Basic calculator: budgeting (50/30/20)

### Planned

#### Basic calculator: income and expenses

#### Basic calculator: saving rate to goal

#### Basic calculator: 4% rule

#### Basic calculator: internal rate of return

#### Basic calculator: compound interest

#### Debt repayment

#### Stock investing: accumulation plan

#### Inflation rate calculator

#### Stock valuation: discounted cashflow

#### Stock valuation: dividend discount model

#### Stock valuation: ratio analysis

#### Stock valuation: historical data

#### Portfolio manager: results and projections

#### Real estate: rental property

#### Real estate: house flipping

#### Real estate: refinancing

#### Real estate: mortgage payment

#### Retirement calculator

#### Salary calculator: income, taxes and expenses
